# <div align="center"> PUSH_SWAP <div/>

## Overview 📝

The Push swap project is a C programming challenge where you're tasked with sorting data on a stack using a limited set of instructions, aiming to use the fewest possible actions. Here's an overview of the project:

1. Objectif :

Write a program called push_swap that sorts a set of integers received as arguments and displays the smallest program, made of Push swap language instructions, that sorts them in ascending order.

2. Setup :

- You have two stacks, named a and b.
- Stack a contains a random amount of negative and/or positive numbers which cannot be duplicated.
- Stack b is initially empty.

3. Operations :


- `sa` (swap a): Swap the first 2 elements at the top of stack a.
- `sb` (swap b): Swap the first 2 elements at the top of stack b.
- `ss` : sa and sb at the same time.
- `pa` (push a): Take the first element at the top of b and put it at the top of a.
- `pb` (push b): Take the first element at the top of a and put it at the top of b.
- `ra` (rotate a): Shift up all elements of stack a by 1.
- `rb` (rotate b): Shift up all elements of stack b by 1.
- `rr` : ra and rb at the same time.
- `rra` (reverse rotate a): Shift down all elements of stack a by 1.
- `rrb` (reverse rotate b): Shift down all elements of stack b by 1.
- `rrr` : rra and rrb at the same time.

4. Learning Objectives :

- Understand and implement basic sorting algorithms.
- Learn about algorithm complexity and optimization.
- Practice C programming.

The project challenges you to find the most efficient sorting solution for different integer configurations, considering the complexity of sorting algorithms. It's a great opportunity to deepen your understanding of sorting algorithms and their efficiency.

## Usage 💡 

```c
$>./push_swap 2 1 3 6 5 8
sa
pb
pb
sa
pa
pa
$>./push_swap 0 one 2 3
Error
```

## Evaluation 🧪

During the evaluation process, a binary called checker_OS will be provided to properly check your program. It will work as follows:
```c
$>ARG="4 67 3 87 23"; ./push_swap $ARG | ./checker_OS $ARG
OK
$>ARG="4 67 3 87 23"; ./push_swap $ARG | wc -l
6
```
If the program checker_OS displays "KO", it means that your push_swap came up with a list of instructions that doesn’t sort the numbers.

## Bonus Part : checker program ⭐️

You can create your own checker program to verify whether the list of instructions generated by push_swap actually sorts the stack properly. 

1. Compile the checker program using the provided Makefile:
```c
make checker
```
2. Run the checker program with the stack as an argument and provide the sorting instructions through standard input:
```c
./checker 3 2 1 0
rra
pb
sa
rra
pa
```
3. The program will output "OK" if the stack is sorted and empty, or "KO" otherwise.


## Installation 🛠️
1. Clone the repository:
```c
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/push_swap.git
```
3. Navigate to the project directory:
```c
cd push_swap
```
5. Compile the program:
```c
make
```

## Contributing 🤝
Contributions are welcome! If you find any issues or have suggestions for improvements, feel free to open an issue or create a pull request.
